presenting under the topic
ding for system administrators
applescript to shell pearl etc John
Renick we actually have some people here
that's exciting I we had to compete with
the apple remote desktop session so
nobody get up and leave because I said
that we also and it's Friday afternoon
so scripting for system administrators
when they asked me to do this they had a
huge amount of stuff that they wanted
included in one session they said
applescript shell and curl I said you
know that's an awful lot of stuff to get
done in an hour so um I don't pretend
that I'm going to be able to teach you
everything you need to know about Apple
script shell and pearl in 60 minutes or
less however hopefully i can give you
enough good examples of fun exciting
very interesting things that i have done
with these and that you can also easily
do with them all primarily be
concentrating as we go through on the
number of interactions that you can have
between one or the other just because
you have a favorite language doesn't
mean that you're eliminated from using
the other language for doing the other
things that you want to do and so
certainly the deficiencies of one
language can easily be overcome by the
advantages of another language so that's
what i'll be concentrating a lot on got
a lot of example scripts um those will
all be available on my website AFP 548
com is the website if you don't know
that if you don't know what that
reference is that's fine look on the
website you can see a you become a
better geek so all these example scripts
will be available but you can download
take a look at hopefully you can
increase your own code with it so
without further ado Apple script shell
pearl why you want to script in some
examples because a lot of people that
I'm I find a lot of it when I'm
consulting on a 1 i'm training that i
tell people well that's easy that's
three lines a shell yeah well but i
don't have to learn shell well then
that's four lines of apple script well i
don't want us to learn apple script well
that's a couple lines of pearl with us
it really isn't that big of an
impediment to getting something done
that you want to do how many are
currently scripting
great so I can get rid of that whole
argument right there we don't need to
convince you that you need to do that
all right so some ideas about when to
write a script some ideas about what
language to write it in and some really
cool script ideas right because that's
what we're all here to learn how to do
the sexy fun stuff to make our lives a
lot easier three major scripting
language will be talking about the camel
for Pearl the apple script in the
terminal 4 she'll she'll see those as we
go through here so sometimes it's a hard
sell why you want to do a script
sometimes you need to convince yourself
sometimes you need to convince your boss
sometimes you need to convince someone
else when you want to script so these
are a couple good reasons why I want to
script it's easy you can liberate admins
right I think I used to have something
in there about how the script was a lot
less expensive than an admin but they
got mad at me for that cause admins
might take it sense and we don't want to
put people out of work so your fingers
definitely can get tired but if you have
a script you never have to do it again
if you ever know you're going to have to
do it again script it all right it's so
much more fun to write a script than it
is to continue to choose the same thing
over and over and over again so that
shouldn't be a hard thing to have to
understand no matter how old you are
you're too old to do the same thing 15
times in a row there's just no reason to
have that level of repetition in the
administration workflow so definitely
others need to be able to do it
reliability a script never gets things
wrong once the script has been written
right it's not going to miss type
something as it goes in there my biggest
problem typing is bad tab completion
works great for me but it can't do
everything so script takes care of the
rest of that and it's certainly a lot
more fun to write a troubled or to write
a script than it is to close out of
trouble ticket so then get a script to
close that out and you can just use ard
or something else to push that out then
you can solve some problems in that way
so I came up with a little chart so
amount of work accomplished by amount of
admins oh man and we missed the actual
the yellow line on top is admin to
script the red line as admins who don't
that lost in graphics but that's ok so
this exciting right the more scripting
you do the more efficient you are and
then I gave that and they said well
I can't really use those numbers because
they weren't scientific and we didn't
want people to think that I'd done an
actual study on this so these are fake
numbers but you get the idea that if you
start out as an admin that scripting
you've already got work that's being
done for you without you having having
to lift a finger alright so definitely
scripting is a very good way to go when
the script there's times that you should
script in those times that you shouldn't
script when you need to automate the
process when you need to make sure it's
done the same way every time and when
you find scripting more fun than real
work all great times the script alright
I certainly don't want to encourage
anyone to do work when scripting call if
you have the need if you have that
desire and you find it fun go start
writing scripts all right don't do the
real work let the scripts take care of
that for you later on times that
sometimes it's not a good idea to script
sometimes scripts just get way too
complicated all right you need to
understand that there's a break point
after you put too much effort into a
script and it's still not going anywhere
or the situation is too complicated
don't script it all right lay back let
somebody do it maybe yourself right and
definitely leave some exciting things if
you scripted everything you're going to
be bored all right so nice mix of both
of those is good so now we get into the
religious war all right because I'm sure
we have people that are all from
applescript or bash or shell or zsh or
any of the other ones that we might have
available to us here on ls10 so which
scripting language which one do you want
to pick especially if you're new to
scripting there's a lot of different
options that you have out there which
one do you want to use which one is
going to be more effective for you so a
couple of thoughts on that first of all
these are at least this is a
non-exhaustive but what I found was a
little bit of poking around scripting
languages that are included in hours 10
so the three that we're going to talk
about here on the top apple skip shell
in Perl Python Ruby TCL PHP expect all
of these are scripting languages that
are included in here so definitely take
the one that you like the most the one
that works best for you and start using
it all of these can do things so I'm
doing better than others but almost
every script will be able to accomplish
what you're looking for if you bang it
hard
some other ones the people like that
aren't included in default install but
are easily to install download package
and sell or whatever else small talk f
script frontier real basic and so many
others / that recently had an article
about comparing scripting languages back
and forth and there was some 30 or 40
different options that were on there
that they had run through some code see
she was the fastest and all the rest
important couple of points about picking
a scripting languages does it do what
you need it seems basic but I know a lot
of people that forget this one they're
convinced the script that they know the
language they understand is the one all
end all scripting language and they
don't they don't even look at the other
ones so you got to understand if your
scripting language that you're using
doesn't do what you need obviously you
need another scripting language do you
know the language if you don't know what
it's going to be a lot harder scripted
not that you shouldn't learn a language
but just keep in mind that you know what
you know will you be able to run it
where you need to one of the reasons why
we're talking about shell Apple script
and pearl is their default on the
install if you go out and create a real
basic script you create a small talk
script or something else you're going to
have to put that scripting environment
on the other machines so depending what
your deployment that you're looking for
is make sure that you have a scripting
language that's viable for that
deployment that you're looking at both
scripting languages will be able to do
most things don't believe the hype okay
scripting languages are very powerful
and if you work at it long enough the
beauty of a script is that there's all
kinds of possibilities that neither you
nor the developers of that language ever
really thought about to begin with and
there's usually a lot more than one way
to do things right so if you have a
scripting language that you know that
you're fairly confident with familiar
with see if you can do it put a little
work into it finally one of the most
important things about scripting alright
some will do it better than others some
won't but to all get it done tried very
hard to stay away from any kind of speed
comparisons or anything else in here
because scripting isn't about speed all
right if we wanted to get the fastest
job done as possible we'd write on
actual compiled application we'd get out
x co dwie write an objective c we'd
compile it and it would
beat the pants off of anything that we
could do with the scripting for the most
part that's not the object of scripting
the object of scripting is to get your
jobs done to make your servers work to
keep things up and running and to make
you have more fun if you can do that
it's a successful script scripting is
not a hack job it's not a band-aid
scripting is very much an integral part
of your system administration it's not
just something that you worked up so
that you could be lazy being lazy isn't
a bad thing but scripting isn't a hack
because of that so many scripts are more
much more than full-featured
applications I've run a couple shell
scripts that were like 1200 lines long I
go back and I try to understand what
they do and I can't even remember all
right but they're very complete very
full functional shell scripts and they
do whatever an application would do I
couldn't find an application that would
do that scripting was the least path of
least resistance for getting that
they're not a replacement for network
administrator's all right you just need
intelligence on the job and that's a
network administrator novel script you
need the ability to make decisions like
that I shouldn't have that goes without
saying and again not faster than an
application but almost always faster to
develop especially we're not programmers
for the most part in here this is
scripting for system administrators not
for cocoa folks all right so we can
write these scripts we can make them
very easily readable we can make them
very easily usable for our other
administrators that work in our same
organization it's very easy to deploy we
don't have to get into the full-blown
programming language again we're not
going to be faster we're not going to be
maybe even more complete but we're going
to be able to get the jobs done that we
need to get done so first off
applescript one of the important
underlying features of apple script is
its interaction with the GUI all right
pearl and she'll both have huge amounts
of features but they're not going to be
able to interact with the GUI in the way
that Apple script does so let's take a
look at some of the things here so it
started off as a language to control
other apps however it's completely fully
functional in its own right you're going
to be able to do almost anything that
you want to do with an apple script that
you can do with the other script right
mostly because we can do a lot of
interaction between them and that's what
we'll get into a lot of here
closest to spoken English a lot of
scripters use this as their gateway
language all right when you become a
network administrator and you have fun
of the GUI and it's exciting and man
those icons are lickable and they look
all great everything else but when you
move on to the next step into writing
your own things into being able to do
your own processes and control your
entire environment the way you want it
Apple script as many times the entry the
gateway drug into the scripting so it's
a great place to start very easy to pick
up we'll give you some basic ideas about
how to script what scripting will be
able to do for you with a minimum of
effort at the beginning it's been in the
OS and system seven right it's been
around for a long time it's going to be
there for a long time again this gets
back to your deployability if you have a
script and you need to cover a vast
majority of the OSS Apple script is the
way to go so primarily the only GUI
scripting language a couple of features
of that one scriptable apps if I have an
app that has an apple script dictionary
I can actually use it I can tell
Photoshop well photoshop's not a good
example of that tell quark I can tell
quark to do something all right I can
tell other applications to do something
through my apple script I don't
necessarily have to write an app or
really increase the power of that script
because I can have another app that can
do it for me plus it's got the GUI
scripting on it so that way i can go in
i can create dialogues to pop up say
things will show you some of that too
it's easy to pick up folder action
scripts or another powerful feature of
applescript i can attach an apple script
to a folder anytime a new object goes
into that folder I can do something
depending on what that is spoken English
syntax means it's really easy to learn I
can do things like tell this application
to do this tell the application finder
to display dialogue that says scripting
is cool that's an apple script all right
it really is that easy for a lot of
places Apple script studio who uses
Apple scripts to do all right i'll show
you a couple examples of that but it's
incredibly easy development environment
a rapid application environment that you
can easily get your development up and
running very easily recordable alright
this is maybe not as useful as it always
should be but recordable Apple script
will get you into the vein of things I
can hit a record button I can do some
actions
I can look at the Apple script that's
generated from that and then I can
refine from there and especially for
those of you who are just starting out
with Apple script it's one of the
greatest ways to get into Apple script
just do a little recording and see how
to some tax works some disadvantages to
it it's a spoken english syntax you get
used to the idea that i can tell
application quark xpress produce next
month's catalog put all the things i
need to in it and make it look great
obviously that's not going to work
that's not in the court dictionary all
right mate will make it look great isn't
yeah the other stuff here so you got to
be careful with it it's definitely a
double-edged sword there's a lot of
times that you're thinking it would
sound right but it doesn't work it's
single-threaded you can't do more than
one thing at the same time that's just
the way Apple script is we'll talk about
some ways to get around that and it's
only on the map if you're in a mixed
environment and you're looking to deploy
a scripting solution that's going to
work on both the pcs in the max Apple
script is not your answer not anymore
starting with 10 3 you don't need to be
logged on for apple support is that
what's in case should be on here on the
list so here's a sample applescript this
is going to check for enough free space
on your finder volume this might be
something that you use when you log in
just as kind of an idiot check to make
sure that you're not overriding your
drive right OS 10 gets really really
cranky if you drive gets full so this is
tell application finder if the free
space of the startup disk is less than
some really big number because the
counter doing bits I think then empty
the trash beep display a dialog box ack
i feel full say that i need more room so
i have three different i have an audible
i have a verbal and i have just a beat
that goes on when this happens so now i
have to know that something's wrong so
this is the kind of stuff that we can do
with apple script obviously this is kind
of a silly little example but you can
see kind of the level of interaction you
have here i can empty the trash i can
beep i can say things i can display
dialogues these are all gooey
interactions that Apple script is very
very good at so let me show you
something who's running an OS 10 server
and cool all right so let me go to the
demo if I could all right so you've got
to know us to in server problem in
is that you need to get your users into
it the only thing that you have is you
got the accounting system County
Department to give you 0 demo there we
go you got the accounting system to give
you a list of first name last name and
password but man this is going to be an
awful lot of pain if you have to go in
by hand into workgroup manager and enter
all these in so you say well no problem
i'll look into the server admin guide
they've got this great little utility
called Diez import/export exactly who's
written a diaz import export file you
have to get into hex you got a lot of
fields and everything else in it is
really a pain so why don't I write an
apple script to take care of that so now
i have an import/export apple script i
can double click on this says i'm about
to run I can pick my import file here's
my user import comma separated value
file open this up it's going to ask me a
couple questions what's the dns name of
my home home directory server way i will
just use the reverse lookup here so that
works get a couple things in here
default group default shell three users
were imported there's three years in
this list so that's a good thing a
little bit of air control there now I've
got a user import file that goes right
into documents so i look at my documents
folder here is what you would have had
to have done by hand to create a working
des import export file alright so this
is the power of scripting once you do
this once you're going to sit down
you're going to read that documentation
you go my lord this is not what I ever
want to do again and so a script can
really make this easy so I can open up
this Apple script for you and show you a
couple highlights in it and again all of
these are going to be available on my
site there's a URL in the end here so
you can be able to see that so here I
copied it onto the desktop import
applescript open it up and script editor
try it as hard as I could to put more
comments in it than code
and I think I did a pretty good job but
if I did you can ask me questions about
it so it goes into here there's a couple
of things we're just we're using dialog
boxes open save dialog boxes to interact
with the user because we got to put some
information in there all right you end
up with this record we didn't have to go
down to the command line I didn't have
to tell you that you want to run this
put a bunch of flags into it and then
run it through a pearls or bash script
or something else like that both of
those languages would have been able to
do this but now I have a much lower
barrier of entry for admins to be able
to use this application all right so
that's one example of Apple script it
can really help you out of in a system
in the system administrator to go back
to the slides please an incredibly cool
feature of Apple script is its ability
to call shell scripts from within Apple
scripts and again one of the things that
I was talking about is hopefully i can
highlight on a lot of ways that you can
take maybe existing administration tools
that you already have that you've
written in bash that you've written in
perl that you've written in another
language and use them with the other
apple scripts or use them within each
other right so this example here is
we've got a finder intrusion detection
system alright and what it's going to do
is it actually runs a du shell script
command if you're familiar with the last
command the last command returns back
who is the last person to log in all
right so by running this we're going to
run it into a loop it's going to
constantly run the last command and if
it sees that somebody new has logged in
it's going to display a dialogue for me
it's a really stupid intrusion detection
system but it gives you an idea of how
we can use the du shell script command
we're not even really calling a shell
script we're just calling a shell
command alright just the last command we
didn't have to write anything else for
that but now we can easily interact with
it into the GUI if I could be back on
the demo again please so here is my
Apple script IDs intrusion detection
system and it's going to sit up here and
it's going to run in the background and
I'm going to open up a new Finder window
or a new shell and I'll SSH localhost
and type in my password and then if I
look in here today the use
apple just logged in all right because
it's just going through and getting that
last line of the last command all right
so now we have an intrusion detection
system hopefully highlighting the
interaction with the du shell script
command and stuff like that will do a
lot more efficient in a couple of
examples right back the slides great
thanks so that's the Apple script IDs so
some common examples of Apple script
that you'll find on your system carbon
copy cloner who's these carbon copy
cloner all right that's an apple script
studio application it's written an apple
script it does some shell interaction
will show you some examples of that a
little bit when i actually i'll build an
apple script studio app for you all
right itunes helpers everybody likes
itunes right and there's a bazillion
things that will show you your word
count or your song count will display
the current track in your ichat status
whatever else almost all those are Apple
script and then finally print center
repair anybody using print center repair
alright it's killer for fixing printer
problems it'll go through it'll raise
your cups directory whatever else your
temp files and all that other stuff
rebuild it so that's another example of
an apple scripts to view application
right she'll just like the command line
everybody loves the command line right
Lulu command line alright so if you can
do it on the command line you can do it
with a shell script all right it's as
much fun as much excitement as working
in the terminal so it's the built-in
scripting function of the shell one of
the oldest forms of scripting you can
really get deep into show and it's been
out there for years and years and years
the beautiful thing about that is
there's thousands millions of example
code out there alright when doing shell
scripting you should have to write very
little of it yourself right after having
done a lot of shell scripting for the
last year or 2 i've got my own library
when I go in to create a script I don't
even think about starting off with a
blank page I start cutting and pasting
from the last one that I used it's a
really nice can do the same thing with
Apple script and stuff like that but
she'll has a much larger body of work
that's outside some advantages like I
said just like the command line only
automated it's simple if you can use the
command line interface you can use a
shell script
just take a copy what you're typing in
you can paste that into a text file you
can run that as a shell script it really
is that simple it's very few terms the
shell scripting language is very simple
there's not a whole lot of different
things that you can do with it but you
can plug those together in very
interesting ways relatively portable
most unix shell scripts will work on I
was ten with little or no modification
I'm talking to somebody from developer
relations that was talking about a lot
of people from Cohen Solaris that wanted
to migrate their Solaris scripts over 20
s 10 and we just had to swap out a few
commands and that kind of stuff and
everything worked all right so if you
already have a body of administrative
shell script those will work very well
on RS 10 some disadvantages there's no
guey all right we can't display dialog
boxes we can't have it say things and
stuff like that part of that is good
part of that is bad so we can use Apple
scripto to pull those things out I'll
show you an example of that a little bit
hard to do some shell scripts all right
especially when you require interaction
you have to get into expect and some of
the other shell items if you want to
perforate password back to the command
line interface things like that it's
very hard to start up an ssh session
that wants to use a password through a
shell command so you got to be careful
with that check your shell not all
shells can do the same things the
default shell on 10 3 is bash bash has
some slightly different functionality
from some of the other shells that are
out there from TCH and the other ones so
be careful when you're getting deep into
it however from the beginning standpoint
on the entry level on the face of them
they're all pretty much the same for
what you're going to be looking to do
when you start off it and make sure you
specify the one that you actually want
I'll show you what that means in just a
little bit because if you think you're
using bash and you end up using TCH and
you're trying to do something might not
work alright so I'll show you how that
goes so here's a simple mail server
backup you're running an LS 10-3 server
you love postfix you love Cyrus but what
happens when you try to back up the
database well let's live well that's not
such a great thing you know the backing
up data bases when they're in use might
lead to problems so you want to shut
down the mail server you want to copy
over the backup database and then you
want to start the mail server back up
again
that's cool but you don't want to be up
at three in the morning to do it shorts
cooking so we've got a simple shell
script like I said before be careful
that you're using the one that you want
to use so this is the shebang the hash
bang whatever you want to call it up at
the beginning that tells us what
language we're actually going to be
using here so here it's a pound bang bin
bash so that way we know we're using the
bash scripting language for it another
important thing to see here is the
server admin command on that third line
down server admin command is a shell
command that allows you to do anything
that the server admin utility can do so
instead of me having to worry about how
I know how to stop post fix how to stop
Cyrus how to stop all these other things
I can just say server admin stop mail
and the server admin framework does all
that stuff for me so I don't need to
worry about Thank You Apple all right I
don't have to do that extra work now I
can just kind of glue together the
different pieces and make something that
really works out for me so then we use
rsync we sink it from one the VAR spool
I map file to our x rayed because we all
have one of those then we actually tore
it up we tore up or Etsy post fix
directory that has all the configuration
files and everything else in it because
maybe you've looked around the web found
some articles about how to do spam and
virus controls and stuff like that and
then don't know where you've got those
and understand how that you need to back
those up in case anything happens to
them so this script will be both of
those for you and then we do server end
and start now we're even real nice and
verbose about things so we use the log
or command to write commands right lines
to the etsy ax or the logs for the
syslog and that way we know that we
started and stopped the the systems and
everything else liked it one two three
four five six seven lines and you won't
have to wake up at three in the morning
every day all right so from this base
you can take this and we could do all
kinds of crazy things we could set it up
so that every day of the week we back up
to a different folder all right now
we've got incremental backups or
differential backups between all of this
oh man things are great we can do all
kinds of cool stuff with this but this
is a very easy very simple way to get
into this and again this isn't a hack
all right this is doing everything the
way that we needed to do back
the mailman ovation going from there but
maybe this is an all we want so in a
little bit i'll show you how to expand
this into a complete mail server backup
I think you go back to the demo please
so I've taken that shell script that I
had so if i go to my scripts folder
there's a male back this one is a little
more full-featured pop this up a little
bit and let's see how many wines we have
here show line numbers so we got about
170 outlines here I bet you over half of
those or comments alright so this goes
through it backs up not only the post
fix full files but Cyrus pull files asks
you if you want to back up the post fix
backup directory plus it has a restore
functionality in here too because once
you back it up maybe it would be
important to know how to get it back to
where it should have been when you need
to roll those changes back so there's a
restore functionality in here and now
you can feed it a bunch of switches on
the command line and get through some of
this stuff but again this is exciting
but I don't want to have to go down to
the command line to do this all the time
beauty about OS 10 is max or for
grandma's right even Graham our system
administrators so I want to be able to
let those users use this script without
having to go down to the command line
and mess with it so to do that I've got
a little apple script studio application
here get rid of some of this called
mailbag GUI we open it up Scott a little
setup here I can specify a backup
directory I will just do / camp in here
I put my admin password important to
note one of the failures of Apple
scripts to do currently I haven't hit
some of the other sessions if they fix
this what is authentication alright so
when I pass my password here it actually
does essentially a suit you on the
command beautiful all right so this is
fixed and tiger and we don't care about
pants are much anymore rank is that
that's the old cat so when Titus has
been taken care of right now this is
going to echo back on a command line
which is a little bit of a security
issue if you have other users logged in
they can do a process listing and see
that right you'll see that with carbon
copy cloner a lot of the other Apple
scripts to do apps that are currently
out there I was working with an apple
engineer to fix that and do some
Coco message to put in there but we
haven't gotten that working all the way
yet so now I hit back up we sit for a
little bit and say stop the mail system
backed up the post fix pool backed up
Cyrus everything else done did
everything that command was going to do
that shell script except I didn't have
to go down to the terminal and what's
even better look I got a web browser it
takes a little bit to load up because I
didn't do all the stuff but this is some
of the cool things that you can do this
is the cool mac stuff so this is
eventually what the site's going to look
like I think we're going to do some
stuff over there but anyway so now you
have a web browser so while that shell
script is working on your mail back up
you can check out your new webmail
whatever else that you want to go
through there surf the web a little bit
and go from there because there's your
cyrus database gets bigger maybe it
takes a little bit longer so real quick
you probably want to see this in Xcode
and I can show you how simple this was
the setup so here's the mail back dually
file will pop this open into Xcode and
here's the Apple script that runs at all
and it's you know maybe a dozen two
dozen lines of code goes in there
essentially just doing the shell script
command and calling that shell script I
embed that shell script exactly like it
came out of when I was done with it
embed into the resources folder in here
and then you can go into interface
builder and you can set things up with
that hi beautiful thing about interface
builder if you don't know well WebKit
let me go back here and let me show you
all of the code for the web browser
right what but wait there is no code so
some of the fun stuff that you can get
into with Xcode and stuff like that so
really easy to wrap an applescript
studio rapper a complete standalone
application I can put this onto a disk
image I can ship it off the people
they can just double-click on it fill it
out and go from there since I know it
and it's my application I can even go
into and do things like already pre set
up the backup path so I don't have to
type that in all the time alright change
the default URL on the web browser right
maybe you don't want that it's just she
can go any you can set up a lot of
things like that so
don't be afraid this is very easy to get
into use this example start doing your
own stuff start taking a look at that
and very quickly you'll be turning in
your shell scripts into gooeys so also
goes like I said before if you're
migrating over a number of shell scripts
that you had set up on your unix or your
other platforms applescript studio will
allow you to make an easy nice GUI
wrapper for that right wonderful if I
could go back to the slides please
alright so you saw the back of you saw
the GUI so we've got through there so
some interaction with Apple script I've
got a shell script and instead of being
called by an apple script I want the
shell script to call an applescript
specific example of this about a year
ago I was working with another gentleman
to work up a FileMaker Pro startup item
if you ever use FileMaker Pro 55 you
wanted to launch when you started up the
system all right they fix that now so
don't have to worry about it but it
makes a good example one of the problems
with it was I could install the startup
item for you no problem I can just give
you a package installer would go in
there everything would work the issue
however was that I wouldn't know
necessarily where your copy of FileMaker
Pro server was maybe you put in your
applications folder maybe you didn't I'm
a big fan of the mac i want to be able
to arrange my environment the way that I
want it to be so as an admin as somebody
that's producing scripts I want you to
have that same functionality and I don't
want to have to tell you you got to go
into the startup item and you got to
edit that field and figure out where
your actual install is so instead if you
went to the package installer session
you probably learned about post install
scripts these allow you to have a
package that installs and then kicks off
a shell script that's cool but my shell
script can't display a dialogue that
actually lets me know what i need to do
so to get around that my shell script
can call OS a script osa scripts is a
command-line way of actually calling an
apple script so my package installer
actually installs an apple script then
runs the post install script which runs
that
little fair enough right you with me all
right so that Apple script then displays
a dialog box since hey why don't you
pick where your server application is
for filemaker pro server easy enough
once we're done with that then it passes
the back to that post install script the
post install script goes through and
edits etsy Hadiya start apply them and
make sure that it knows where it is and
so you can see a quick example of this
up at the top is the shell script
alright says my path equals 0 s a script
and then we're calling that Apple script
that we installed somewhere that Apple
script which is the second half says
application finder activate open up a
dialogue box to choose a file please
select your application set the path of
the POSIX path that just make sure that
we convert it from the apple script way
of file locations to the shell way
return that which goes right back to the
LSA script and then we're done so
there's the OS a script command it was a
scripting session we had a hard time
trying to find out ways of making the
graphics more exciting so you see how
that turned to orange alright so that's
about as much excitement if you're going
to find in there alright so let me show
you that if I could go back to the demo
machine please I tested it on here so I
need to remove the this our startup disk
I need to remove the receipt from it
real quick sound like a pro server there
you go gone alright so I go into my
scripts folder with all my stuff in it
I've got a nice FileMaker server startup
item we mount it nice package installer
that comes up beautiful little graphics
and stuff that we have in here a little
RTF with the motion look at that alright
i'm not a graphics guy but this was easy
select the volume i'm going to install
asked me for my password
[Applause]
so now it's actually installing the
payload of the application this is the
startup item this is a couple of other
things all right the startup item
however doesn't know the location of the
application so now I've got a dialog box
that pops up hey where's FileMaker Pro
server I can go to my Applications
folder I can pick that out it's not like
a pro server isn't on here then it
passes the back and it does that
software we're successfully installed so
now if I go back to my startup items
library startup items you see there's an
empty server startup item in here if I
look inside here here's the actual
startup items show item if I doesn't
want to open there there we go that's
easy enough and it went through and look
at here here's a line the reference is
the address book because that's what I
picked in that dialog box that asked me
what application I wanted to use so now
the shell script and let me show you the
cell shell script so if we go into the
start up the package show package
contents inside contents we've got
resources inside resources we have the
post-flight script which sha we can open
up here and said gets a little ugly the
first time you see it but there's a tiny
little shed command said command said
doesn't get you better tiny little said
command in there that in my in my
default item that i installed i just had
a little comment that said going to be
replaced by script which makes it nice
and easy to find on the way back so i
took the output of that Apple script
that dialog box that came up set it back
to the shell script shell script then
goes back in and changes what I
installed beautiful right I can even go
in and if I go into my hard drive again
I did a bad thing because I kind of left
that Apple script around startup items
filemaker pro server
and resources here's an apple script
which we actually feed 20 s a script so
this is the content to the apple script
so again I installed the apple script on
the hard drive and the package installer
is part of the payload the post-flight
ran the post-flight shell script which
called OS a script it's called the
applescript that i knew where it was
because i installed it there Apple
script found out where the FileMaker Pro
server application was going to live
pass that back to the post-flight
install script which then edited the
startup item and then we're done okay
[Applause]
that was the most complicated way I
could find of having one call the up
call the other and back alright so some
really fun stuff that you can do with
that and now again hopefully you can see
that you can easily easily easily put
this kind of functionality into your own
scripts migrate over your actual shell
scripts that you had before put that
into here and do a lot of work with it
so I could go back to the slides please
some common examples are shell I was
looking for ones that were in the
default install here so some of these
might be reaching a little bit depending
on what you call common examples but the
NC daily weekly monthly scripts those
are all shell scripts right those are
the ones that go through back up your
net in for database rotate your log
files and stuff like that so those are
in their startup items are commonly
shell scripts if you look in system
library startup items you're going to
find that the actual executable of a
startup item is almost always a shell
script cuz it's nice and simple if
you've ever used the disk space monitor
i was just i did a grip on the system
looking for anything that had been
bashing it or something else like that
um disk space monitor alerts are there
and pre-flight and post-flight package
scripts are most awful always shell
scripts see a lot of pearl lately too
pearl never use another scripting
language again right once you lose right
once you use pearl you never go back
having said that I stick with shell but
I understand where people come from with
it i started off mostly doing
applescript because it was easy it was
very easy to get into once we started
getting into OS 10 server especially in
10 1 and 10 to an apple script wasn't as
robust as it is now in 10 3 shell
scripting took care of some of those
deficiencies stuff like having to be
logged in and things like that so a
shell script I started doing a lot of
work with and have a lot of fun with the
interaction between it some would say
the next logical progression would be
the pearl takes a different person to
understand pearl so we'll go over that
pearl is present I'm pretty much any
unix system alright so again you have a
wide range of deployable systems that
you can write a Perl script for news
there's many many many many pearl
resources available alright there's a
lot out there just like shell script
there's thousands of sites devoted to
this thousands of sample scripts that
you'll be able to get to and an
incredibly active and for the most part
very nice developer community alright
happy to answer questions just don't get
them into Wars and you should be good so
some advantages advantages of pearl it's
very much multi-threaded you can do a
lot of things at the same time Pearl's
got a lot of resources available for
that this is verging on a religious
statement but I think it's the most
extensible of the three languages mostly
because there's thousands and thousands
and thousands of modules that have been
written for Pearl all right anybody
again I hate to pick on carbon copy
cloner but since Mike's doing the ARD
session I will if you've used ard you've
used p sink p sink is a pearl app that
uses a bunch of modules that use it in
there again you can use those same
modules to increase your own pearl
application so that's one of the
examples that uses that all right Sipan
is a pearl repository will give you a
URL for that in a little bit that's got
a listing of all these modules that you
can easily get two runs on most systems
although it's not in there by default
you can get pearl environments for back
as OS 8 and 4 windows so even though
it's primarily installed on most UNIX
systems
you want to if you have a perl script
that you want to use with a little bit
of tweaking and some installation on the
client side you can get this to running
their clients incredibly good for text
processing all right I've lately started
getting into helping out a design firm
that I was working with that needs to
get rid of a bunch of files generated by
their rips and stuff like that and the
file path got so weird and so
complicated that pearl was the best
solution for that because it can easily
get in there parse out that text do a
lot of text manipulation without having
to go through and do it by hand like you
might have to encode in a shell script
and if you've ever done anything with
pearl one of the slogans of pearl is
there's always more than one way to do
it all right and as you will find out
when you go looking for perl modules to
do your one item that you need to do you
might find 3,000 so you got to wade
through that a little bit decide hey
which one's better whenever else so
there's a little bit of a learning curve
there may be a little bit of a sense of
overwhelm pneus overwhelming how those
all are out there pearl disadvantages it
is probably I don't think anyone would
argue with me that it's the most complex
of the languages that we're talking
about here all right not that that means
it's hard to learn it's just that
there's a lot more syntax that you need
to get used to there's a lot more
commands there's a lot more of
statements that you can get with so you
need to understand that before getting
into it it's not something that you can
just pick up a visual quickstart guide
to and be writing a lot of curl within a
day or two it might take you three or
four days and to get the really good
stuff take you a little bit longer than
that but there is going to be a bit of a
learning curve right you'll actually
have to think with a play i knaw with
apple script we can do some recording
and stuff like that we don't have that
functionality with pearl so again
there's a little more into it and
there's more than one way to do it so
when you approach a problem with pearl
if you go looking on from the list and
stuff like that you're going to find
eighteen thousand different ways and you
have to kind of filter through that a
little bit and say really which one is
the best way all right here's a simple
perl script i wrote an application that
generated ssh tunnels it was an apple
script studio application problem with
it was as once it calls the du shell
script command it would have to wait for
that du shell script command to return
before the apple script studio
application actually went back to being
operational so one of the ways around
supposed to actually wrap my shell
command into a perl script that would
actually demonize itself so this is one
of the one of the examples I can find a
pearl that I would written it did
something kind of sexy so it demonizes
itself it keeps that ssh tunnel open as
long as it needs to and the Apple script
studio application had a return because
this application this perl script had
spun off and it kind of gone on its own
so the Apple scripts to do part was
happy to go back to it there you go see
that action difference between this and
a shell script it's just text it's
different text but it's just text is the
fact that we're using user bin pearl
here instead have been bash there's one
of the other shells we might have had
all right here we have a perl script
Emma auto printer setup is Mike here in
Purdue all right maybe not all right
this is a shell a perl script that an
admin from purdue set up and let me show
you a problem i'm a user i sit down at
the lab machinist oh no printers let me
add a few i want to add an LPR printer
it's at my house this isn't my home IP
but we'll just type in something here
it's going to be a generic postscript I
don't want to get anything fancy there
hi generic post would not add it and I
at it ok cancel we have a printer in
here now there you go generic postscript
printer all right problem is the next
user behind me is it going to want this
prayer I'm in a lab situation in the
University I don't have the luxury of
having an OS 10 server and workgroup
manager that I can push down and force
users into different printers so instead
I kind of got to do this myself pearl to
the rescue we've got an application
called printer setup will pop all these
opens you can see these connect on and
it is a perl script that looks inside
two different files so here's the perl
script again you can take a look at this
and go through it and see some of the
stuff and it reads in from two different
files one is a printer definition file
which understands what printers are
available to my client machine and the
other file
a printer mappings file that says hey if
this machine's IP address is in this
range we're going to install these
printers on it so two different data
files both in plain text and we're just
going to use the LPR commands the LP
commands to set of print queues and
stuff like that so let me share a quick
example of that so I'm the lab admin I
come to this machine if you're off why
did I keep adding printers go down to
the command line and you got to run this
is root and volumes you know we just
drag it in right this is too much work
do command not found you should have no
subscript want to go there see there you
go beautiful now I go back to the
printer setup hey it's not that 17a IP
address lpr machine anymore now we've
got the WWDC demo machine come on if
there's something for that right it went
in the perl script goes in it deletes
your current folders that you have it
looks in the data files finds out what
printers you're supposed to have and add
those printers in with the LP commands
nice example of what you can do with
pearl and some of the stuff that you can
get done with it so I could go back to
the slides please common examples of
pearl part of the service setup process
runs a perl script that goes through and
does that if you have a website with an
ssl certificate that's actually got a
passphrase associated with it when you
launch apache it actually calls a perl
script that pulls that out of it disk
space monitor does this cgi scripts on
web pages right those are vast majority
those are probably pearl I'll go in a
little bit of lemon say that so examples
of pearl that you'll find around all
right some links that you can go to for
more information here's the URL for the
sample scripts so dub dub dub AFP 548
com etsy dub dub DC zip those are out
there now she'll be able to grab those
internet web documentation go to the ADC
home some of the other stuff there
here's some man pages for bosch pearl
and others then we've got some example
sample script sites that you can go to
and download some stuff from notice for
shell we go to Google I couldn't find
one that was as conclusive as I wanted
it and I didn't want to put 30 up there
so literally when I go looking for shell
script examples I google bash printer
setup whatever else and go through there
I'll be able to find that so thanks
that's my site my email supposed to be
up there but it's natural at AFP 548 com
if you go to the site you'll find it